# Reflective: ELit II 

#### Levi Kaplan

## Week 9

1. First Screening and Agrippa both offered looks into the first wave of electronic literature the Flores article described.  One thing I really enjoyed about both of these is that they felt more intimate than later works of Elit.  For example, it felt wrong for me to look into Agrippa, so much so that I only looked at the description of the work, and didn't read the actual work itself.  It felt like I would be violating or disrespecting Gibson by reading something that wasn't meant for me.  And with First Screening, it was kind of nauseating, but ultimately very interesiting to take a look at the way people would represent art when the relm of computers was largely unexplored.  These examples of first wave elit really exemplified the themes of later works, of expression and doing something to make them stand out or be different, and it is for this reason that I completely agree that the first wave was what inspired and allowed the further waves to take place.
2. The Flores piece proposed that memes are a form of electronic literature, a proposition I hadn't considered before reading it.  'Meme' was coined by Richard Dawkins to be a method of distributing pockets of culture across space through the internet. As such, and because they often contain words, they could fall under Flores' definition of electronic literature.  However, I feel like ELit often has a purpose and goal beyond making people laugh or propogating a known cultural phenomenon, and I'm not sure I personally would classify memes, who don't typically have a broader purpose, as a form of ELit.
3. Electronic literature as a whole can be broadly categorized into works that edit existing material and works that create their own material.  This is a distinction not present in print literature, whose works almost exclusively involve creating their own work.  Tools like the Deletionist offer interesting ways to display custom and heavily mutable editings of existing work, by editing any website, while twitter bots craft curated experiences through randomly inserting text or gathering tweets from elsewhere to create something new.  My favorite twitterbot we looked at was the Pentametron, who created a poem in iambic pentameter from other people's tweets.  This was a genius way to craft something new out of something that exists out in the world.  The interplay between these two different types of ELit is fascinating, as the idea of mutating existing content can't exist in print the same way it can in the digital sphere.  I think the second and third waves can almost be distinguished by how much they are effected by their surroundings, using what's around them.  There are some examples where this distinction doesn't hold true, but it's perhaps a decent metric for determining what wave they belong to.