# Reflective: Binding

#### Levi Kaplan

## Week 6 

1. I really enjoyed how Baxter's Procrustes played with my expectations.  What I went into thinking was a stale commentary on old people liking fancy books was actually a metacommentary on that topic, and how their pretentious manner caused them to take great value in something as superficial as it gets, a book with no words in it.  It was especially interesting to me how at the end of the story, the book was worth a lot of money, so that even though the people of the club knew the lack of content, this made the book even more novel in their eyes, and therefore worth even more.  
2. The idea of a letterpress printed series of pages chronicalling a hike is a really neat idea, and one that I was really drawn to.  Visiting the website of the author, I really enjoyed looking through the various prints and wondering where and what sort of scenery she took inspiration from.  With how expensive the prints were going for, it seems to be a lucrative and rather touching enterprise, and I really liked her work and her story of how she got there.  The idea of using parts of the trail in her letterpress made it feel even more intimate and endearing.
3. Reading about the minimalism of the book Dantas wrote about, I was really inspired and moved by the ideas presented.  Telling a simple story in a simple way, using simple technology is really clever, and maybe it's just that I really like minimalism, but the design and aesthetic of the book really drew me in.  One of the things I like most about books is how ordinary the look of their content seems to be, and I liked how the authors played with that to tell this letterpress inspired story.  Reading about the intricacies of the binding was also interesting, if not a bit confusing, and made me want to learn more about how different books can be bound.  I think there's an interesting dichotomy between this reading and that of Baxter's Proscrustes, as in the latter, the author of Baxter's Procrustes was playing with minimalism not as a statement, but as a lack of content and writing, fooling people into buying his pretty book, while Fiapo was made to be unassuming.  The design was similar, with minimalism at its focus, but here it was done to convey a story.  They're sort of opposites in that way, despite both focusing on minimalism to very different aims.