# Reflective: Fabrication I

#### Levi Kaplan

## Week 10

What makes the lincoln life mask so intriguing? When discussing this in a small group in class, my group talked about how this could be due to it being so ordinary.  It's not a marble bust, so formal and imposing.  It's something you can hold in your hand and ponder from all angles.  But then does a souvenir you buy at a gift shop made of the same material and of the same thing have the same effect?  The class agreed that it kind of didn't, oddly.  While the exact same thing, one feels cheap, the other novel. I speculate this could be due to the labor that goes into creating one.  You see the process, imagine the fillaments being layered one by one.  It's fresh and new, and you can trace it's source to the moment you told the printer to make it for you.  This gives an intimacy to the object and to Lincoln himself.  'Hello, Lincoln.  I made you, and now I have the pleasure of pondering the intricacies of your likeness.'

The Einstein 3D book was fascinating to read about, but one question still lingers. How does it read? Without having the object in front of me and engaging with it, I can't tell if it's ever going to be a thing people commonly engage with. How heavy is it? How well do the pages turn? Do the letters rise up from the page, and if so, how does that influence the thickness and feasability of the book? Reading about the project was interesting, but I really wish there was some way to read the pages or engage with the piece. It's such a novel concept and smart idea that I want to see it in a museum or at least view pictures of the pages. I felt a similar way about the Loss Sets example, as I really wanted to engage with that work in a 3D space. Reading about how they created the shape made me want to pick up and engage with the shape physically, and admire the intricacies created by the lines of the poems used.  There was a 3D viewer available as a link on the site, which is something I enjoyed using and wish the Einstein book had, but that was a poor substitute for feeling the weight of the object in my hand.  This speaks remarkably to the role of physical handling in Fabrication, especially in regards to 3D printing. You almost 'see' with your hands when it comes to 3D printing, wanting to hold, feel, and run your fingers across the various components of the object. They're objects meant to be handled.

The 'adjacent possible' discussed in the Schreibman article offeded an explanation for the reason lego and other tinker tools are so popular.  You can springboard off what you have to create new things, using what you create from that to continue building on top of it.  One of my questions for the reading was whether that is exclusive to physical art, or if there's a component of that present in 2D art like painting or drawing. After considering this further, I believe there is a role. When creating a painting or drawing, moments of opportunity create themselves as you paint.  While a blank canvas has near infinite possibilities for creation, as you put strokes or lines to canvas or paper, you're limiting what you can create but also establishing new places for ideas to spring up.  What if I put a flower in this meadow, or an owl in this tree? What if I made the sky orange and the mountains purple? There's always something new possible, and adjacent possibilities crop up as one engages in the art process, no matter what form that art takes.