# Reflective: E-Lit 1

#### Levi Kaplan

## Week 8

1. I found Jabr's article to be interesting. Thinking about the different ways that the book we read affects our opinions of what we're reading reminded me a lot of the What We Talk About When We Talk About Books reading. The benefits of print reading, like remembering the location of words on the page, call back to discussions we had about how the type of book we read from subconsciously affects our opinions of that book.  
2. The La Farge reading offered an interesting take on the fear that many have of the internet.  As a tech person myself, I've always found that embracing technology while also being cognizant of its effects is the best way to keep with the times while also being aware and present. It seems like this is a position La Farge feels, too. Citing examples of E-Lit, like the amazing What Football Will Look Like in the Future which I thoroughly enjoyed, are great reasons why E-Lit can be better, in some cases, than printed counterparts.  It allows for new ways of exploring themes and ideas that print books don't allow for.  
3. While the first and second readings may seem to contradict one another, I find that they're rather complimentary.  The first describes some reasons we should use print instead of digital, and the second describes some reasons to use digital instead of print.  They're arguing against one another, but a perceptive reader can see this as reasons for using one for certain cases and the other for other cases.  I am someone that has a Kindle but prefers reading from physical books.  Having convenience for cases where that is preferred, but havign a better reading experience when convenience isn't a concern gives me as a reader the best of both worlds. 