# Reflective: Fabrication II

#### Levi Kaplan

## Questions and Observations

1. The Resch piece detailed how "digital culture can challenge [professionals'] institutional mandates", and I'm not sure I agree with this.  I think Resch places more of a threat in technology than is the case. Citing an example of people not going to a museum, instead looking at the piece on their iPad is not a concern, in my opinion.  People have been able to see pictures of works for a long while now, and the ability to peruse the space in a 3D rendering is a poor substitute for seeing it in person. People aren't going to stop going to museums anytime soon, and treating technology as an ally, like how the article discusses the avenues of 3D printing as a way of engaging with historical pieces, is a more productive and meaningful conversation.  
2. The three-teapots example from Bibliocircuitry and the Design of the Everyday was a fascinating look into the three modes of design in an easy to digest metaphor I hadn't seen before. Pondering the different ways of using the *reflective*, *visceral*, and *behavioral* design was interesting, but Norman's quote about not having a story about design without all three was not properly explored. It seems to me that the three cases all have their own unique uses, and I can't think of an example where all three are used in conjunction, except this teapot one highlighting the intentional differences between the three. I really liked what the author said about reflective design, and it's the one that intrigued me the most. Taking an object and intentionally rendering it useless to say something about the way we use the object and the interactions we have with it reminds me a lot of some modern art pieces designed to flip or alter your perspective on mundane things. I recall a piece I saw at the Harvard Art Museum of a woman who casted the waste bin of her bathroom in plaster and blasted it in a furnace, hardening the shell and burning away the original trash, resulting in a permanent illustration of consumer waste, specifically in women's sanitary products. Altering objects like this to serve a point is a common theme in art, and a common theme we've found within art books. Another example is the unopenable book we looked at in the library archives, or the book whose story unfolds as you use up the matches, never to be read in the same way again. 
3. My favorite example from the Bibliocircuitry and the Design of the Everyday reading was 'The Hollow', the book whose meaning changes wildly depending on whether the reader is willing to carve into its pages and destroy the book. It's a great example of reflective design, as it forces you to perform the most heinous crime for book lovers - the destruction of a book - to access the most beloved of things, a deeper and more intricate story. The story itself interested me, too. It's the kind of thing I'd love to read, but I don't think I'd be able to destroy it to read it. The idea that I respect the form of a book more than the desire to read its contents says a lot about my opinion of books, and this book idea does a wonderful job of forcing the reader to debate this very question.  
