# Reflective: Introductions

#### Levi Kaplan

## Week 1

A common thread throughout these readings, and one I found most interesting, was the theme of "bunkers".  Price discusses "treating books as a bunker", using them as refuge from the overbearing nature and everpresence of technology.  In a lot of ways, and for a lot of people, they become a safehaven of the old-fashioned, a piece of constancy that can balance out the ever-changing nature of technology. This is similar to many of the alien species in the Ken Liu short story, with races creating physical bunkers to live in out of books, or creating a bunker for their thoughts through physical aspects of their anatomy.  In the Livingstone article, he too brings up bunkers, this time in reference to the importance of keeping books safe, or perhaps in bunkers.  His article talks about books as bunkers for the old, the ancient, and what has stayed important.  He discusses ancient books as bunkers into the past, and into what we used to prioritize.  Books are bunkers, safehavens of a different world free from modern stressers for a lot of modern readers, including myself.  They are containers of information, and as such are capable of containing our interest, transporting us and making us empathize with those completely fictional, truly caring about their well-being, crying at their failures and jumping for joy at their triumphs.  These are bunkers shielding us temporarily from the present, allowing us to peak into the past or into the mind of another.

Another interesting question the Livingstone reading brought up is what we find more important in old books.  He discusses two ancient books that survived and are very readable, and one that is difficult to read because it survived a fire.  Is the book that has a less interesting personal story, of surviving untouched for hundreds of years more important, or is the book that survived a fire, who is still with us today, more important?  When applying this question to the Price reading, one can ask of the importance or obsolescence of bound books.  Do we worship print as a relic while using the digital?  Does this make the physical 'story' of the physical book more interesting, like it may with Beowulf?  In the Liu story, I found the books that transcribed the entirety of a person's thoughts to be the most interesting.  But is there interest in what is censored, too?  As the fire singed and left mysteries to future scholars, so too could the worn down and well-read books of the Allatians be fascinating to future scholars of this world trying to puzzle through the worn down and fuzzy voices from the past.  

Finally, I'd like to discuss content perception.  Price claims that "the very same sequence of words means something different - does something different - depending on whether it's made for a desk or a pocket, a classroom or a church".  This is a very similar position to Livingstone, who finds beauty and wonder not necessarily in the contents of these ancient books, but in their stories and the remarkable fact that they survived all these years.  The content can easily be read elsewhere, but to see and feel the words on the page, to be there as if you were the scribe that wrote the words, is a completely different experience, saying "it is not merely a representation of a story; it is the story".  The form determines the opinion of the content.  In Liu's stories, the form is very vital to the content.  To read the stories of the Allatians would be to lose a fundamental component - the voice and inflection - from the story.  It would be a completely different book and therefore one could extract wildly different meanings just from altering the way the book is consumed.  The same can be said of most every race Liu describes.  I find this to be true myself; reading an old copy of an old book transports me more wholly into the world than that of a new, mass paperback copy.  I see hardcovers different from paperbacks, and kindle books different from physical copies.  The form dictates the function, but also the interpretation.